Requirements are All You Need: From
Requirements to Code with LLMs
Bingyang Wei
Department of Computer Science
Texas Christian University
Fort Worth, USA
b.wei@tcu.edu
Abstract—The pervasive use of textual formats in the documen-
tation of software requirements presents a great opportunity for
applying large language models (LLMs) to software engineering
tasks. High-quality software requirements not only enhance the
manual software development process but also position orga-
nizations to fully harness the potential of the emerging LLMs
technology. This paper introduces a tailored LLM for automating
the generation of code snippets from well-structured require-
ments documents. This LLM is augmented with knowledge,
heuristics, and instructions that are pertinent to the software de-
velopment process, requirements analysis, object-oriented design,
and test-driven development, effectively emulating the expertise
of a seasoned software engineer. We introduce a “Progressive
Prompting” method that allows software engineers to engage
with this LLM in a stepwise manner. Through this approach,
the LLM incrementally tackles software development tasks by
interpreting the provided requirements to extract functional
requirements, using these to create object-oriented models, and
subsequently generating unit tests and code based on the object-
oriented designs. We demonstrate the LLM’s proficiency in
comprehending intricate user requirements and producing robust
design and code solutions through a case study focused on
the development of a web project. This study underscores the
potential of integrating LLMs into the software development
workflow to significantly enhance both efficiency and quality.
The tailored LLM is available at https://chat.openai.com/g/g-
bahoiKzkB-software-engineer-gpt.
Index Terms —Requirements Engineering, Large Language
Models (LLMs), ChatGPT, Code Generation, Use Cases, Soft-
ware Specification, Automated Software Engineering
I. I NTRODUCTION
In the realm of Software Engineering, Requirements Engi-
neering (RE) is pivotal, serving as the foundation upon which
all subsequent development stages are built. Requirements are
traditionally documented in natural language [1], varying from
structured formats like use cases to informal descriptions.
The textual nature of requirements inspires researchers to
apply natural language processing technologies for various
requirements engineering tasks [2]. The advent of large lan-
guage models (LLMs) such as ChatGPT offers a promising
avenue for assisting requirements engineering processes. These
language models, powered by deep learning algorithms and a
gigantic training corpus, exhibit an unprecedented ability to
understand, analyze, and generate natural language.
Despite the promising capabilities of LLMs, their appli-
cation in translating natural language requirements into exe-
cutable software code remains largely unexplored. This gap in
application presents a unique opportunity to revolutionize the
way software is developed. In this research preview, we present
an initial attempt to use LLMs to assist software engineers by
progressively refining use cases to functional requirements,
design models, test cases, and eventually implementation code.
Our work is built on two assumptions. First, detailed
requirements are provided to the LLMs as input. Second,
software engineers’ collaboration with LLMs is critical.
LLMs need detailed requirements as input. The recent hype
in generative AI makes people have unrealistic expectations for
LLMs. People envision that providing a brief description of a
software project will enable LLMs to automatically generate a
fully functional software system. However, LLMs are not mind
readers. A critical aspect of leveraging LLMs is the quality
of the input. In the context of software development, that
input would be the requirements. The potential of the LLMs
to generate effective code hinges on the details and clarity
of the requirements documents. Well-crafted requirements are
not just a necessity but a catalyst in fully harnessing the
capabilities of LLMs. High-quality requirements provide a de-
tailed and clear set of instructions. LLMs, with their advanced
natural language processing capabilities, can interpret these
instructions accurately, leading to more precise and effective
code generation. This will make the software more aligned
with the stakeholders’ intent.
The second assumption is that LLMs need software engi-
neers’ collaboration to be effective. Instead of letting an LLM
take full control, they should behave like a consultant for the
software engineers. The LLMs and the software engineers
ought to collaboratively find out the design details that will
be used in the implementation of the software system. By
automating parts of the analysis, design, and coding process,
LLMs allow software engineers to focus on more complex and
creative aspects of software development.
The contributions of this paper are as follows:
• We introduced a tailored LLM for generating source
code based on the provided software requirements.
The LLM is fine-tuned on the knowledge, instruc-
tions, and heuristics pertinent to the software devel-
opment process, requirements analysis, object-oriented
design, and test-driven development. The LLM is avail-
able at https://chat.openai.com/g/g-bahoiKzkB-software-
engineer-gpt.
arXiv:2406.10101v2  [cs.SE]  17 Jun 2024
• Our innovative integration of stepwise refinement of
requirements into the LLM’s design process significantly
enhances its robustness and accuracy.
The structure of this paper is organized in the follow-
ing manner: Section II examines the existing literature on
generating code with LLMs. Section III presents a detailed
description of our research method, outlining the systematic
approach we have developed to enhance the application of
LLMs in software engineering. Section IV elaborates on the
design specifics of our custom-developed LLM. Following
that, Section V offers a case study that exemplifies the model’s
capability in comprehending requirements and producing code
that is both syntactically and semantically accurate. Section VI
explores the implications of LLMs within the field of software
engineering and outlines the directions for future research.
Finally, Section VII concludes the paper.
II. R ELATED WORK
Belzner and his colleagues presented an insightful analysis
of the potential benefits and challenges of adopting LLMs
in software engineering [3]. Their discussion spanned across
areas such as requirements engineering, system design, code
and test generation, code quality reviews, and software process
management. The authors elucidated their position through
a case study on the development of a “search and rescue”
simulation for autonomous planning agents by interacting with
a base ChatGPT model and a Google Bard model. They
started with a one-line textual requirement, and after a series
of conversations, the LLM generated simple test cases for
the simulation. Hong and his colleagues [4] proposed an
LLM-based multi-agent framework, MetaGPT, that considers
the context of a software development process and assigns
different roles (product manager, architect, engineer) to several
agents. Their approach decomposed the complex task of devel-
oping software into manageable subtasks that require collabo-
ration among agents. The open-source project, gpt-eningeer 1,
allows a user to specify some high-level requirements like
“Create a multiplayer snake game in the browser using a
Python back end with MVC components”, the LLM analyzes
the requirements, asks for clarification, and then builds it.
The work referenced prior suggests a misconception that
mere brief descriptions can compel an LLM to “magically”
generate a fully operational software system. We challenge
the notion of the so-called “one-line requirement” method in
LLM-driven software development. The case studies cited to
illustrate this approach often involve elementary and well-
documented examples, such as the creation of a snake game.
The simplicity of these examples and the widespread avail-
ability of their source codes online may mislead some to
overestimate the efficacy of succinct requirement statements.
While “one-line requirement” might suffice for tasks that are
detailed and low-level, e.g., “Create a web page to measure
user reaction time by clicking a button”—which may di-
rectly leverage technical descriptions likely present in training
1https://github.com/gpt-engineer-org/gpt-engineer
datasets, their effectiveness diminishes with the complexity
and uniqueness of software projects not represented in the
LLM’s training data. This paper aims to explore the boundaries
of LLM capabilities in software development under such
conditions.
A pivotal factor in employing LLMs for software devel-
opment is the quality of input requirements. The model’s
success in accurately interpreting and translating these require-
ments significantly depends on their clarity and specificity.
However, this critical aspect is often overlooked in existing
literature. Our position is that human involvement in crafting
requirements is irreplaceable by LLMs. While these models
can assist in the process, their outputs must be meticulously
reviewed and validated by human stakeholders. We advocate
against the reliance on “one-line requirement” methodologies
for LLM-based software development. Instead, we emphasize
the importance of dedicating time and effort to articulate
high-quality, detailed requirements and to thoroughly consider
potential scenarios. Our version of LLM is optimized to
comprehend structured and comprehensive inputs, rather than
simplistic, one-liner prompts.
The only piece of related work that aligns with our perspec-
tive is the open-source initiative, GPT-Synthesizer 2. This tool
stands out by assisting users in comprehending their project’s
needs and exploring design options through a well-organized
interview process. Tailored for individuals unsure of how to
initiate or define their software projects, the GPT Synthesizer
proves to be a crucial aid.
III. R ESEARCH METHOD
The review of existing literature reveals a significant gap in
the application of LLMs for the direct generation of executable
software code from natural language requirements. To bridge
this gap, our research introduces a novel method that not only
enhances the LLM’s understanding of software requirements
but also iteratively refines its output to ensure that the gen-
erated code meets the semantic expectations. This method-
ological innovation is vital for advancing the use of LLMs
in software development, particularly in environments where
accuracy and alignment with business goals are paramount.
A. Research Objectives
Our research aims to develop and evaluate a tailored LLM
that can effectively translate detailed software requirements
into high-quality, functional code. The primary objective of
this research is to demonstrate the feasibility of using LLMs
for end-to-end software development tasks, thereby minimiz-
ing human intervention in the coding process while ensuring
that the outputs are practically viable and aligned with user
intentions.
B. Research Design
This research follows a phased approach:
• Phase 1: Model Selection and Customization. We begin
by selecting ChatGPT as the foundational LLM due to
2https://github.com/RoboCoachTechnologies/GPT-Synthesizer
its advanced capabilities in understanding and generating
natural language. The LLM is then customized to suit
the specific needs of software development, integrating
software engineering knowledge and instructions that
enhance its ability to process and translate software
requirements into functional code.
• Phase 2: Data Preparation. Software requirements will
be collected with the intent to represent the diversity of
real-world software development projects as accurately
as possible. These will include both industry-standard
specifications and hypothetical scenarios designed to test
the model’s capabilities across different scenarios.
• Phase 3: Evaluation and Refinement. The tailored LLM’s
effectiveness will be evaluated through a series of con-
trolled tests, analyzing both the code quality and its
alignment with the input requirements. The evaluation
phase will involve comparing the LLM-generated code
with expert-written code to assess accuracy, adherence
to requirements, and practical usability. Both qualitative
and quantitative measures will be employed to provide a
thorough evaluation of the tailored LLM’s performance.
Feedback from these evaluations will be used to further
refine the model.
C. Iterative Refinement Process
An iterative refinement process is integral to the method-
ology. After each evaluation phase, detailed feedback will be
analyzed to identify any shortcomings of the tailored LLM.
This feedback informs subsequent refinements to the model,
enhancing the tailored LLM’s ability to generate more accurate
and relevant code outputs.
IV. A T AILORED LLM FOR SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
In this section, we explore the design of our tailored LLM
crafted to support software engineers in generating code from
high-level requirements. To depict the process of engagement
with our customized LLM, we employ a UML activity dia-
gram, which outlines the workflow for interaction between the
software engineers and the LLM (Fig. 1).
A. Software Requirements Documents
Without a foundation of high-quality requirements as input,
even the most performant LLM can be rendered useless.
Instead of typing a few informal itemized requirements to an
LLM, we require the software development team to upload
to the LLM structured requirements in the format of project
glossary (Google Docs), vision and scope (Google Docs), and
use cases (Google Docs).
• Project Glossary: This document contains definitions of
all key terms used within the project, ensuring clarity
and consistency across all project communications and
artifacts.
• Vision and Scope: This outlines the overall objectives,
the scope of the project, and the roles of different
stakeholders, providing a comprehensive overview of the
project’s goals and expected outcomes.
Software Engineer Tailored GPT
Upload requirements
Object-Oriented Design
Project Glossary
Vision and Scope Use Cases
Requirement Summary
</>
Test Cases
</>
Code
Analyze the 
requirements
Request to derive 
functional requirements
Derive the functional 
requirements
Functional Requirements
Request to generate 
design Generate OO Design
Request to generate test 
cases and code
Generate test cases 
and code
Fig. 1. A human software engineer’s interaction with the tailored GPT model.
• Use Cases: This document includes detailed descriptions
of each use case, illustrating specific functionality that
the software is expected to perform. These are particu-
larly valuable for understanding the interactions between
the system and its users, as well as between different
components of the system.
The time and effort invested in writing high-quality software
requirements pays off significantly, especially in the era of
LLMs.
B. A Progressive Prompting Approach
Inspired by the stepwise refinement technique in program
development, we adopt a progressive prompting approach
to interact with the LLMs. In Fig. 1, the interaction starts
with the software engineer uploading detailed requirements
documents to the LLM. Instead of instructing the LLM to
rush to the final artifact i.e., the test cases and code, we
give the LLM “time to think” by asking the LLM to follow
a waterfall software development process and come up with
intermediate artifacts along the way. In particular, the software
engineer prompts the LLM to first refine requirements into
detailed functional requirements. Then, the LLM is prompted
to devise an object-oriented design based on the functional
requirements. The purpose of the design is to discover objects,
assign responsibilities to them, and model their interactions.
Finally, based on the functional requirements and the design
produced in the previous steps, the LLM is prompted to
generate test cases and code.
This progressive prompting approach is in line with both the
waterfall software development process and the requirements
abstraction hierarchy (Fig. 2). By breaking down the complex
software development task into smaller and more specific
subtasks, this approach generates a “chain of thought” [5],
making the LLM more efficient and effective in performing
complex tasks in software development. The intermediate ar-
tifacts like functional requirements and object-oriented design
are valuable to the software development team since they allow
the human engineers to understand and verify the LLM’s chain
of thought and provide feedback. Those artifacts also help
verify in case of hallucination. This will also have the benefit
of requirement traceability [6].
Business 
Requirements
(Problems & Objectives)
User Requirements
(User Stories or Use Cases)
Functional Requirements &
Quality Attributes
(EARS format)
Features
Fig. 2. A requirement hierarchy.
C. Instructions and Knowledge Base for the Tailored LLM
In this study, we selected ChatGPT as the foundational
LLM. Prompts can be utilized in two ways when interacting
with an LLM like ChatGPT. The first method involves directly
requesting ChatGPT to generate code based on provided
requirements. The second method introduces a structured ap-
proach where, instead of allowing ChatGPT to autonomously
navigate software development tasks, we embed specific in-
structions to guide the development process. These instructions
include, for example, heuristics on converting use cases into
functional requirements and developing an object-oriented
design. These guidelines act as constraints and safeguards to
align the development closely with an organization’s standard
processes and mitigate the risk of generating irrelevant or
inaccurate content.
In this work, we took advantage of ChatGPT’s new feature,
GPTs, by customizing a base ChatGPT to excel in generating
code from high-level requirements. The tailored GPT is named
“Software Engineer GPT”3. We also make the instructions for
the GPT available4 so that other practitioners can freely modify
the instructions to create their own customized GPT.
Besides instructions, we provided a comprehensive knowl-
edge base5 for the tailored GPT. The document is an extensive
3https://chat.openai.com/g/g-bahoiKzkB-software-engineer-gpt
4https://github.com/Washingtonwei/software-engineer-gpt
5https://github.com/Washingtonwei/software-engineer-
gpt/blob/main/knowledge.md
exploration of requirements engineering. It starts with a gen-
eral introduction to requirements engineering, emphasizing its
role as a collection of activities for defining, documenting,
and adapting the objectives and constraints of a software
system based on existing problems and new technological
opportunities. The document then delves into the specific
roles and responsibilities of a business analyst in this process,
detailing their crucial function in forging partnerships between
customers and developers. It covers various types of require-
ments in software projects, such as business requirements, user
requirements, functional requirements, and quality attributes.
These are organized into a hierarchy, illustrating how each
level adds detail and elaborates on higher-level requirements.
The document also provides an in-depth look at user require-
ments, including their representation through use cases, and
the specific elements that constitute a use case. Addition-
ally, it addresses functional requirements and their derivation
from user requirements. Furthermore, the document outlines
a software development workflow incorporating requirements
analysis, object-oriented design, and testing, followed by a
discussion on software architecture with a focus on the “Clean
Architecture”. Finally, the document offers guidelines for
object-oriented design, including identifying key classes and
assigning responsibilities, and concludes with an overview of
test-driven development, demonstrating its application in the
context of the presented software development approach. The
contents in the knowledge base are extracted from [7] and [8].
V. C ASE STUDY
To demonstrate LLMs’ capability of generating code from
requirements, we chose a medium-sized web project called
“SuperFrog Scheduler”. SuperFrog is the iconic horned frog
mascot of Texas Christian University (TCU), known for its
participation in numerous events annually, including sports,
weddings, charity functions, and media appearances. To fa-
cilitate the scheduling of SuperFrog’s appearances, a request
management system is necessary, involving submission by
customers, review by the Spirit Director, and acceptance by
student performers embodying SuperFrog. A development
team, consisting of five software developers, commenced work
on the SuperFrog Scheduler in October 2018 and completed
the project in May 2019. During the requirements gather-
ing phase, the team identified and documented 26 user-goal
level use cases, which are available here (Google Docs).
The “SuperFrog Scheduler” was selected for its complex-
ity and relevance, involving multiple stakeholders and intri-
cate scheduling requirements typical of real-world software
projects. This case study not only provides detailed docu-
mentation for verifying the tailored LLM’s code generation
capabilities but also showcases the model’s practical appli-
cation in a dynamic educational environment. Its visibility
and the educational context offer a unique opportunity to
demonstrate the potential of LLMs in streamlining complex
software development tasks while educating future software
engineers on AI-driven development tools. For this preview
paper, our focus is restricted to the implementation of Use
Case 18 (Google Docs). Use Case 18 describes the process
where the Spirit Director generates TCU Honorarium Payment
Request Forms for SuperFrog Students who have completed
appearance requests. The system facilitates the creation of
these forms by providing the necessary details for each eligible
appearance. This process aims to ensure SuperFrog Student
workers are compensated for their services in a timely and
efficient manner.
Note that the design and the source code of this project
are never made accessible via the web, and therefore not
part of ChatGPT’s training data. This is different from all the
previous work. In this section, we demonstrate the complete
software development process focusing on Use Case 18 by
conversing with the tailored GPT. The complete conversation
with the tailored GPT is available at this link 6. This real-world
application can provide tangible evidence of the effectiveness
and challenges of using ChatGPT in software engineering.
To enhance the accessibility and reproducibility of our
research, we have compiled all essential project artifacts into
a replication package 7. This package includes the project
glossary, vision and scope, and detailed use cases, which are
fundamental to understanding the development context and
requirements of the “SuperFrog Scheduler”.
A. Uploading Software Requirements
We initiated the process by uploading the project glossary,
vision and scope, and use cases to the tailored GPT. These
requirements documents provide critical context and back-
ground information for subsequent tasks needed. The GPT
then summarized the contents of the three documents (see the
conversation excerpt in Fig. 3). The GPT prompted us to pick
one use case to start.
Project Glossary Vision and Scope Use Cases
You
Tailored GPT
Let’s get started.
Please upload the glossary document of the project, the vision and scope document, and the 
use case document. For each use case, I will first derive some functional requirements, then 
create an object-oriented design, and finally write some test cases and code.
You
Tailored GPT
The "Project Glossary" document outlines key terms relevant to the project ...
The "Vision and Scope" document details the objectives, scope, stakeholder profiles ...
The "Use Cases" document provides a comprehensive overview of various scenarios ...
Which specific use case would you like to explore further for deriving functional 
requirements, creating an object-oriented design, and writing test cases and code?
Fig. 3. The user uploads requirements documents to Software Engineer GPT.
6https://chat.openai.com/share/8f52df6a-d00c-44df-a2c4-4a9235415418
7https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1CFxMNblwOV-
mthVcRRb2gTsFxNRO7nlz?usp=sharing
B. Deriving Functional Requirements
Use cases describe tasks that users will need to perform
with the system, or user-system interactions that will result
in a valuable outcome for some stakeholders. We instructed
the GPT to derive the necessary functional requirements that
must be implemented to enable each use case. As a proof of
concept, we only demonstrated the design of Use Case 18,
which pertains to the generation of Honorarium (Payment for
Services) request forms for student workers (see the derived
functional requirements in the conversation excerpt in Fig. 4).
Then, the GPT asked us to proceed with creating an object-
oriented design for this use case.
You
Tailored GPT
Derive some functional requirements for use case 18.
Functional Requirement 1: The system shall allow the Spirit Director to select completed 
appearances for which to generate TCU Honorarium Request Forms.
Functional Requirement 2: The system shall automatically populate the Honorarium Request 
Forms with details of the appearance, including date, location, and SuperFrog Student 
involved.
Functional Requirement 3: The system shall verify the completion and documentation of 
appearances before generating the Honorarium Request Forms.
… 
Would you like to proceed with creating an object-oriented design for this use case?
Fig. 4. Software Engineer GPT derives the functional requirements from use
cases.
C. Generating an Object-Oriented Design
In this step, we instructed the GPT to carry out an object-
oriented design for Functional Requirement 2: The system
shall automatically populate the Honorarium Request Forms
with details of the appearance, including date, location, and
SuperFrog Student involved. Based on the instructions defined
in the knowledge document, the GPT:
• identified key classes that users use to describe the
problem domain and implementers use to describe the
solution domain,
• assigned responsibilities to each class,
• provided properties and operations to each class that are
needed to carry out these responsibilities,
• came up with an object collaboration so that the objects
of the classes can collaborate to carry out the functional
requirements of a use case.
Fig. 5 shows the excerpt of the conversation. As expected,
some designs were not aligned with our intentions. So, we
provided detailed feedback to the GPT, and the GPT quickly
adjusted the design.
D. Generating Test Cases
In this step (Fig. 6), the tailored GPT was instructed to
generate one unit test case for the generateForm method in
the class FormGenerator. We also specified the technologies
required. It turned out that again we needed to clarify some
misunderstandings (detailed conversion is not shown).
You
Tailored GPT
Create an object-oriented design for Functional Requirement 2.
• Appearance: Represents each SuperFrog appearance with attributes such as ...
• HonorariumForm: Represents the Honorarium Request Form with attributes like ...
• SuperFrogStudent: Represents the SuperFrog Student with attributes such as ...
• FormGenerator: A service class responsible for creating and populating the Honorarium 
Form. It includes methods like generateForm(Appearance appearance) that uses details 
from the Appearance and SuperFrogStudent objects to fill in a HonorariumForm object.
• PayrollService: Represents the external service or department handling the processing of 
the forms, with methods for …
The interaction starts with the FormGenerator retrieving …
You
Tailored GPT
For class Appearance, change its name to SuperFrogAppearanceRequest, and add these 
attributes to the class ...
For class HonorariumForm, add these attributes ...
For class FormGenerator, the generateForm method shall take a list of completed 
SuperFrogAppearanceRequests as input.
Based on the update, the Appearance class will be renamed to ...
The revised HonorariumForm class will now focus on attributes ...
Updating the FormGenerator class to accommodate the new requirement ...
Fig. 5. Software Engineer GPT creates an object-oriented design for one
functional requirement.
You
Tailored GPT
Generate a unit test for the generateForm method of the class FormGenerator. Use JUnit 5, 
Mockito, and AspectJ.
import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;
…
class FormGeneratorTest {
    @Test
    void testGenerateFormTalliesPaymentsPerStudent() {
        // Assuming SuperFrogAppearanceRequest includes a method to get the payment amount
        // and that HonorariumForm includes a method to add to the payment amount
        // Setup mock completed requests for multiple appearances by the same student
        SuperFrogAppearanceRequest request1 = new SuperFrogAppearanceRequest("1", /* 
other parameters */, 100.00);
        SuperFrogAppearanceRequest request2 = …
        List<SuperFrogAppearanceRequest> completedRequests = Arrays.asList(request1, 
request2);
        FormGenerator generator = new FormGenerator();
        // This should produce a single HonorariumForm for the student with ID "1"
        // with a total payment amount of 250.00
        Map<String, HonorariumForm> generatedForms = 
generator.generateForm(completedRequests);
        // Assert that only one form is generated for the student
        assertEquals(1, generatedForms.size(), "Should generate one form per student");
        // Assert the total payment amount is correct
        …
    }
}
Fig. 6. Software Engineer GPT generates a test case for one method of a
class.
E. Generating Implementation Code
In the end, based on the intermediate artifacts or “chain
of thoughts” generated in the previous steps, we believe
that the GPT has enough context and information to move
to the final step. We then instructed the GPT to generate
the implementation code for the generateForm in the class
FormGenerator (Fig. 7).
You
Tailored GPT
Generate the code for the generateForm method in the class FormGenerator.
public class FormGenerator {
    public Map<String, HonorariumForm> generateForm(List<SuperFrogAppearanceRequest> 
completedRequests) {
        Map<String, Double> paymentAmountsPerStudent = new HashMap<>();
        for (SuperFrogAppearanceRequest request : completedRequests) {
            String studentId = request.getSuperFrogStudentId();
            Double currentAmount = paymentAmountsPerStudent.getOrDefault(studentId, 0.0);
            paymentAmountsPerStudent.put(studentId, currentAmount + 
request.getPaymentAmount());
        }
        Map<String, HonorariumForm> generatedForms = new HashMap<>();
        for (Map.Entry<String, Double> entry : paymentAmountsPerStudent.entrySet()) {
            generatedForms.put(entry.getKey(), new HonorariumForm(entry.getKey(), 
entry.getValue()));
        }
        return generatedForms;
    }
}
Fig. 7. Software Engineer GPT generates the implementation code based on
the test case.
VI. D ISCUSSION
In this section, we explore the implications of our approach
for the future of software engineering, education, and agile
methodology. Additionally, we address the limitations of our
study and outline directions for future research.
A. Requirements are All You Need
While the title of this paper, “Requirements are All You
Need: From Requirements to Code with LLMs”, might seem
hyperbolic, it aptly highlights the pivotal role of requirements
engineering in contemporary AI-assisted software engineering.
Even amidst the advanced capabilities of LLMs and other AI
tools in streamlining the coding process, the initial step of
meticulously defining requirements remains a cornerstone. A
well-articulated set of requirements is fundamental to lever-
aging AI technologies effectively in software development,
thereby reinforcing the indispensability of requirements en-
gineering as a discipline within the AI-enhanced software
engineering landscape.
B. Impact on Software Engineering Education
LLMs have transformed the landscape of programming,
showcasing exceptional abilities in code generation and
problem-solving. This technological advancement has unde-
niably increased efficiency and productivity within software
development. However, the question arises: Is teaching tradi-
tional designing, programming, and testing skills to students
still necessary? The unequivocal answer is yes. Despite the
prowess of LLMs in handling a variety of programming tasks,
their limitations cannot be overlooked. These models some-
times misunderstand us and produce code that is not aligned
with our intent, underscoring the need for human oversight and
validation. It is imperative for software engineering education
to evolve, teaching students to critically assess AI-generated
designs and code for accuracy, efficiency, maintainability, and
security.
The emergence of LLMs, such as ChatGPT, and tools
like GitHub Copilot and Devin AI, signals a pivotal shift
in software engineering education. To stay ahead, educators
must not only embrace the LLMs themselves but also guide
students on how to effectively leverage LLMs. This entails
a significant pedagogical shift towards enhancing soft skills.
Students should be trained to excel in communication with
various stakeholders, the art of drafting high-quality software
requirements, and conducting thorough design and code re-
views. Such skills are becoming increasingly vital as the role
of manual coding, particularly for minor features, diminishes.
C. LLMs Redefine Agile
This paper presupposes the availability of detailed and
extensive requirements, such as use cases, for input into LLMs.
Crafting effective requirements, however, can be a labor-
intensive process, and this strategy might initially be met with
skepticism. A key question arises: How does this strategy align
with Agile methodologies, which prioritize working software
over comprehensive documentation? Critics may argue that the
focus on detailed and often extensive use cases could result
in an undue emphasis on documentation, thereby potentially
redirecting time and resources away from actual software
development. Yet, this concern may be mitigated in the context
of LLMs. We contend that the emergence of LLMs is poised to
transform the Agile methodology. Owing to LLMs’ capabili-
ties in test and code generation, the process of translating well-
defined requirements into code has become significantly more
efficient. This efficiency could allow software engineers to
allocate more time to the crucial tasks of communication and
requirement specification, thereby enhancing the development
process.
D. Limitations and Future Work
The proof-of-concept case study showcased the significant
potential of leveraging LLMs in software development, partic-
ularly in the context of use-case-driven development for web
projects. However, further testing across a broader spectrum
of software projects—including real-time systems, AI-driven
applications, and games—is essential to fully understand the
applicability and limitations of LLMs in these varied contexts.
Additionally, exploring different requirements specifications
and design methodologies is crucial to assess the adaptability
and effectiveness of LLMs in diverse software engineering
paradigms. While a tailored version of ChatGPT has been
developed and made publicly available, utilizing the default
user interface of ChatGPT for software development presents
practical challenges. Specifically, software engineers may find
it cumbersome to navigate through previously generated de-
signs or code snippets due to the need to scroll extensively. To
address this issue, we envisage the creation of a user-friendly
web application in future work. This application will aim to
streamline the process, offering a more intuitive and visual
approach to translating requirements into tests and code.
A comprehensive evaluation of this approach remains a
priority for future research. We intend to encourage software
engineers to incorporate these LLMs into their workflow and
solicit their feedback. This will provide valuable insights
into the practicality, efficiency, and user experience of using
LLMs in real-world software development scenarios, thereby
informing further improvements and adaptations.
VII. C ONCLUSION
In this research preview, we introduced a tailored LLM
designed to assist software engineers in refining requirements
into software design, test cases, and implementation code.
This LLM incorporates an external knowledge base that en-
compasses both the knowledge and heuristics of requirements
engineering and software design. A case study was conducted
to demonstrate the practicality and effectiveness of this cus-
tomized LLM, underscoring its potential in software devel-
opment. Furthermore, our research underscored the critical
role of meticulously crafted requirements in maximizing the
benefits of LLMs within the realm of software engineering.
Future work will explore a broader array of requirements
specification techniques and software design methodologies.
Additionally, a more thorough evaluation of this innovative
approach will be undertaken to further validate its efficacy
and applicability in diverse software engineering contexts.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Kassab, C. Neill, and P. Laplante, “State of practice in requirements
engineering: contemporary data,” Innovations in Systems and Software
Engineering, vol. 10, pp. 235–241, 2014.
[2] L. Zhao, W. Alhoshan, A. Ferrari, K. J. Letsholo, M. A. Ajagbe, E.-
V . Chioasca, and R. T. Batista-Navarro, “Natural language processing for
requirements engineering: A systematic mapping study,”ACM Computing
Surveys (CSUR), vol. 54, no. 3, pp. 1–41, 2021.
[3] L. Belzner, T. Gabor, and M. Wirsing, “Large language model assisted
software engineering: prospects, challenges, and a case study,” in Interna-
tional Conference on Bridging the Gap between AI and Reality. Springer,
2023, pp. 355–374.
[4] S. Hong, X. Zheng, J. Chen, Y . Cheng, J. Wang, C. Zhang, Z. Wang,
S. K. S. Yau, Z. Lin, L. Zhou et al. , “Metagpt: Meta programming for
multi-agent collaborative framework,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2308.00352 ,
2023.
[5] J. Wei, X. Wang, D. Schuurmans, M. Bosma, F. Xia, E. Chi, Q. V . Le,
D. Zhou et al. , “Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning in large
language models,” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems ,
vol. 35, pp. 24 824–24 837, 2022.
[6] F. A. Pinheiro, “Requirements traceability,” Perspectives on software
requirements, pp. 91–113, 2004.
[7] K. E. Wiegers and J. Beatty, Software requirements. Pearson Education,
2013.
[8] B. Meyer, Object-oriented software construction . Prentice hall Engle-
wood Cliffs, 1997, vol. 2.