LUKIS: A benchmark framework of geometric digital twinning for slab and beam-and-slab bridges 
Ruodan Lu1,2*; Ioannis Brilakis3 
* corresponding author 
1School of Architecture, Building and Civil Engineering , Loughborough University, United Kingdom , 
Email: r.lu@lboro.ac.uk 
2Darwin College, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom, Email: rl508@cam.ac.uk 
3Department of Engineering, University of Cambridge, United Kingdom, Email: ib340@cam.ac.uk  
 
Abstract 
We devise, implement, and benchmark a framework LUKIS to automate the process of geometric digital 
twinning for existing slab and beam -and-slab bridges. LUKIS follows a top -down strategy to detect and 
twin bridge concrete elements in point clouds into an established data format Industry Foundation Classes. 
Existing software packages require modellers to spend many labour hours in generating shapes to fit point 
cloud sub-parts. Previous methods can generate surface primitives combined with rule-based classification 
to produce cuboid and cylinder models. While these methods work well in synthetic datasets or simplified 
cases, they encounter challenges when dealing with real -world point clouds. We tackle this challenge by 
investigating the entire workflow of geometric digital twinning for bridges and proposing LUKIS to auto-
generate bridge objects without needing to generate low-level surface primitives. We implement LUKIS 
on a single software platform. Experiments demonstrate its ability to rapidly twin geometric bridge concrete 
elements. Compared to manual operation, LUKIS reduces the overall twinning time by at least 95.4% while 
the twinning quality  (spatial accuracy) is improved. It is the first framework of its kind to achieve the 
geometric digital twinning for primary concrete elements of bridges on one platform. It lays foundations 
for researchers to generate semantically enriched digital twins. 
 
Key words: Digital Twin, IFC, Point Cloud Data, Bridge Inspection 
1 Introduction 
Bridges are fundamental to a nation’s transport infrastructure network. Every time a bridge collapse occurs, 
we are reawakened to the fact that our nation’s most iconic structures need constant vigilanc e in the form 
of maintenance. In the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK), federal and state agencies, and 
highway authorities have developed bridge inspection and rating tools (FHWA, 2012; Flaig & Lark, 2000) 
aimed at prioritizing bridge rehabilitation projects. The US and the UK spend $12.8 billion and £4 billion 
every year respectively to address deteriorating bridges  and maintain their road network  (ASCE, 2013; 
NAO, 2018). The reasons behind these enormous costs are mainly because the manual inspection data 
available in existing Bridge Management Systems (BMS) does not meet the standard of information needed 
for sound decision-making (ASCE, 2017). Innovative digital bridge documentation techniques are urgently 
needed to boost bridge management productivity. 
Building Information Modelling (BIM) has been introduced and adopted for many decades in the 
Architecture, Engineering, and Construction sector (Sacks et al., 2018). However, BIM is not an appropriate 
model for real-time operational response. Its design-centric and static nature impedes its usage within the 
Operation & Maintenance ( O&M) phase and lifecycle asset management. Statistics show that the 
percentage of using BIM technology on over half of the infrastructure projects in the US and Europe has 
doubled or even tripled from 2013 to 2017 (Buckley & Logan, 2017) . However, the implementation 
concentrates in the design stage and is almost absent in the O&M phase (Table 1). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 Project stage at which BIM technology provide value (Buckley & Logan, 2017) 
 US UK France Germany 
Before Design Begins     
Preplanning (US)/Brief (UK, France, Germany) 7% 0% 4% 2% 
Predesign (US)/Concept (UK, France, Germany) 15% 22% 10% 19% 
During Design     
Design Development (US)/Developed Design  
(UK, France, Germany) 
36% 49% 49% 44% 
Construction Documentation (US Only) 11% - - - 
Bidding/Construction/Installation     
Bid Letting (US) 1% - - - 
Production (UK, France, Germany)  13% 20% 22% 
Construction (US)/Installation  
(UK, France, Germany) 
28% 7% 3% 13% 
Post-Construction     
Project Closeout (US)/As Built  
(UK, France, Germany) 
0% 7% 12% 0% 
Maintenance (US)/Use (UK, France, Germany) 0% 2% 1% 0% 
A Digital Twin (DT) (Grieves & Vickers, 2016; Parrott & Lane, 2017)  comprises both three-dimensional 
(3D) geometry of the infrastructure components as well as a comprehensive set of semantic information, 
including material, functions, relationships between the components, and so on (Borrmann, et al., 2018b). 
It could be further enriched with other information, similar to what researchers implement on the Building 
Information Models, such as sensor data (Davila Delgado et al., 2016) and damage information (Hüthwohl 
et al., 2018). This is particularly useful for bridge inspection practice that is currently based on qualitative 
visual assessment and high-level comparisons, as the texture and damage data can be properly integrated 
with the geometry at the element-level of the virtual model of a bridge. The essential feature of DTs is their 
3D geometry (Borrmann & Berkhahn, 2018) so that “geometric” is used to highlight the DT with only its 
geometry data, i.e. gDT. We can generate gDTs using the point clouds collected with laser scanners. Laser 
scanning is a technique to capture an object’s exact size and shape into the computer world as a collection 
of XYZ co-ordinates. In the following texts, we introduce first (1) the Exchange Information Requirements 
(EIRs) of DTs; and then (2) provide a brief review of software solutions to see how far they have achieved 
in terms of the degree of automation on twinning from point clouds, according to the EIRs. 
Exchange Information Requirements (EIRs) 
The end-users of bridge DTs include but not limited to the inspectors, structural engineers, and decision 
makers. The Exchange Information Requirements (EIRs) (ISO, 2017) define the information that will be 
required by the end -users from both their own internal team and f rom suppliers/sub-contractors for the 
development of the project and for the operation of the completed built bridge. The EIRs should clearly 
articulate the information requirements for each supplier /sub-contractor and describe the expected 
information deliverables in terms of documents, model files, and structured information. However, the 
nature of the EIRs depends on the complexity of the project, the experience, and the requirements of the 
end-users (Ashworth et al., 2019) . Experienced end-users may develop very detaile d EIRs, whilst others 
may only set out high -level requirements and some basic rules, leaving the supplier /sub-contractors to 
propose how those requirements will be met (Ashworth et al., 2017; Kassem et al., 2016). Detailed EIRs of 
a DT are extensive and complex. Developing such thorough EIRs is outside the scope of this study. Given 
the dynamic and real -time updated nature of a DT, the following bullets outline the fundamental 
information that a bridge DT should contain for a specific moment. Broadly, EIRs should include: 
• EIR 1 : Component-level digital representation. This means the geometric resolution of a  
bridge DT should at component -level, not assembly -level or even lower  level (Sacks et al., 
2017). Bridge component types include primary (e.g. pier, girder, pier cap, deck) and 
secondary (e.g. wing walls, handrails) elements  (Kedar, 2016). Components that are totally 
occluded, or that are too small or invisible to be discerned due to insufficient scan resolution 
are not provided. 
• EIR 2: Component explicit geometry representation and property sets. This means a bridge 
DT is prepared for the use as an “Inspection Digital Model” in a BMS. A bridge DT should 
represent the as -is geometri es of components  (Borrmann & Berkhahn, 2018) . Existing 
methods of documenting bridge data measure geometries accurate to 10 cm or 5 cm and round 
them up (Kedar, 2014).This is a rough estimation and notation. Defining the level of geometric 
detail (geometric spatial accuracy) of a bridge DT is beyond the scope of this research. 
• EIR 3: Component taxonomy. The components making up a bridge DT should not only be 
modelled but  should also be identified and labelled  with their component types (Koch & 
König, 2018; Ma et al., 2018).   
• EIR 4: Component implicit information such as spatial semantics of attributes and structural 
relationships, material, cost, schedule, and so on (Fink, 2018; Teizer & Melzner, 2018; Treeck 
et al., 2018). A bridge DT should be sufficiently semantically meaningful to provide most of 
the information needed for decision-making concerning the repair, retrofit or build of a bridge 
(Sacks, Kedar, et al., 2018). 
• EIR 5: Component damage information and the association to the bridge parts. Damage type 
(e.g. structural/ non -structural crack, spalling, scaling, efflorescence  etc.), location, and 
orientation should be exactly identified and embedded into the bridge DT a long with the 
texture/image data for each visible component (Hüthwohl et al., 2018). 
A bridge DT should also be exchanged in between various project participants who use different platforms. 
Therefore,  
• EIR 6: All information requirements should be presented in a vendor-neutral data format, such 
as Industry Foundation Classes (IFC) (Borrmann et al., 2018b; Koch & König, 2018; Sacks et 
al., 2018). 
There are already many capable software packages on the market such as Autodesk, Bentley, Trimble and 
ClearEdge3D, that provide the most advanced digital twinning solu tions. For example, ClearEdge3D can 
automatically extract pipes in a plant point cloud as well as specific standard shapes like valves and flanges 
from industry catalogues followed by fitting built -in models to them through a few clicks and manual 
adjustments (ClearEdge3D, 2019). This means ClearEdge3D can achieve a certain degree of automation as 
the EIRs 1, 2 and/or 3 can be partially automated. However, the spec -driven component library of 
ClearEdge3D can only recognize and fit point cloud subparts with standardised shapes based on an industry 
specification table. Limitations of state-of-the-art modelling software application have been highlighted in 
research (Agapaki et al., 2018) . Modellers must first manually segment a point cloud into subparts, and 
then manually fit 3D shapes to them ( EIR 1 & EIR 2). Fitting accurate 3D shapes to the segmented point 
clusters is challenging because the set of allowable primitives is limited in most software applications 
(Wang et al., 2015) so that modellers must customize unusual shapes. Then, modellers need to enrich the 
resulting gDT with other explicit and implicit information, such as component’s taxonomy ( EIR 3 ), 
connectivity, aggregation and so on (EIR 4), and defects ( EIR 5). Then, all EIRs need to be exported  or 
converted in IFC format (EIR 6). 
Real-world reinforced concrete (RC) bridge components contain skews and imperfections and cannot be 
simply fitted using regular generic shapes. This article investigated the entire manual twinning process for 
existing RC bridges from point clouds using CloudCompare a nd Autodesk Revit. Up until the end of the 
process, only EIRs 1, 2, 3, and 6 were partially satisfied. Although the Revit’s Family Editor provides a 
powerful capability to create shapes in a free -form manner, almost all the total twinning time is spent on 
customizing shapes and fitting them to corresponding point clusters (note: the manual operation time and 
results will be presented in Section 4). The significant “bottlenecks” of the manual operation using software 
packages are listed as follow: 
- Existing software packages can semi -automatically extract standardized shapes in point clouds. 
However, they cannot automatically extract non-canonical shapes, which are frequently present in 
RC bridges. Manual shape customization is laborious and time-consuming.  
- EIRs 1, 2, 3, and 6 can only be manually achieved. EIRs 4 and 5 are unavailable within existing 
applications. 
- No single software can offer a one -stop gDT generation  solution. Modellers need to shuttle 
intermediate results in different formats back and forth between different software packages during 
the twinning process, giving rise to the possibility of information loss.  
To tackle abovementioned challenges in practice, we propose LUKIS (combines the authors’ family names), 
a twinning framework for existing bridges, aiming to meet EIRs 1, 2, 3, and 6, i.e. the EIRs required to 
generate a gDT with component semantic labels. EIRs 4 and 5 are beyond the scope of this research. In the 
next section, we review existing research methods related to EIRs 1, 2, 3 and 6. We then outline LUKIS in 
Section 3 followed by demonstrating the experiments in Section 4 . We discuss the results and draw our 
conclusions in Section 5. 
2 Background 
Previous research methods of twinning infrastructure using point clouds can be divided into two groups 
according to the EIRs: (1) object detection methods (EIRs 1 and 3); and (2) 3D solid model fitting methods 
(EIRs 2 and 6). We summarize each in turn in the following texts. 
2.1 Object Detection in Point Clouds 
Object detection aims to meet EIRs 1 & 3. In this work,  “detection” is defined as the combination of 
clustering (from points to point clusters, i.e. EIR 1) and classification (labelling the point clusters, i.e. EIR 
3). This problem has been intensively studied in research. Most existing clustering methods follow a 
“bottom-up” approach, which goes from points to surfaces followed by semantic labelling to derive objects 
(Dimitrov & Golparvar-Fard, 2015; Zhang et al., 2015). Most existing classification methods follow a “top-
down” approach, which employs knowledge such as relationships and contexts to detect specific instances 
embedded in point clou ds or to infer the semantics of components in a geo metric model (Ahmed et al., 
2014; Riveiro et al., 2016). We review both clustering and classification methods as well as investigate how 
far they have solved these challenges. Specific limitations are also identified. 
 Clustering methods 
Existing clustering works usually take bottom-up approach to meet EIR 1 (Zhang et al., 2014). As its name 
implies, t he bottom-up approach pieces together low -level features like points to generate higher -level 
features successively. Higher-level features include but not limited to surface normals (Macher et al., 2017), 
meshes (Marton et al., 2009), surface patches (Zhang et al., 2015), non-uniform BSpline surfaces (NURBS) 
(Dimitrov et al., 2016), and voxels (Vo et al., 2015). Four main methods arise from the literature: RANdom 
Sample Consensus  (RANSAC) (Zhang et al., 2015) , Region Growing  (Walsh et al., 2013) , Hough -
Transform (Díaz-Vilariño et al., 2015) , and Octree  paradigm (Xu et al., 2018) . Whilst the RANSAC 
algorithm is effective to detect planar surfaces in the presence of outliers, it suffers from spurious-planes, 
which are frequently produced around the boundaries (Jung et al., 2014) . In addition, RANSAC requires 
prior knowledge about the data, meaning that the selection of a fixed number of shape hypotheses implies 
that a prior estimate of the inlier ratio is available (Schnabel et al., 2007). This is often not the case in the 
practice of twinning for real-world bridges. Region Growing (RG) is also a widely used scheme for point 
cloud clustering whereas it has the boundary weakness issue. It excels when the point cloud does not suffer 
from substantive occlusions. However, it tends to over segments objects when non -trivial occlusions are 
present (Dimitrov & Golparvar-Fard, 2015). Hough-Transform (HT) is another commonly used clustering 
method. Adan & Huber (2011) proposed HT methods to detect walls in building point clouds. HT becomes 
computationally prohibitive when the number of dimension increases.  For example, i t requires a 5D 
parameter space for cylinder detection (Rabbani, 2006). Thus, HT is sensitive to parameter dimensions and 
cannot be directly applied to shapes characterized by too many parameters. This constraint impedes its use 
in the detection of bridge objects, which often contain skews and imperfections, and cannot be described 
using generic shapes with limited parameters.  Octree-Based (OB) methods have  been proposed to tackle 
the issue of computational complexity  (Su et al., 2016) . However, the segmentation accuracy of  OB 
methods is sensitive to the voxel size. Vo et al. (2015) proposed an OB algorithm which can  semi-
automatically adjust the voxel  size using an adaptive octree. However, it faces the difficulty of patc h 
clustering for low point density regions.  
 Classification methods 
Top-down methods are usually used to meet EIR 3, because above-mentioned bottom-up detection schemes 
are rarely suitable for point cloud classification (Riveiro et al., 2016) . Without high-level information, it 
could be difficult to determine whether low-level primitives such as local surfaces or voxels belong to the 
same instance. The top-down approach usually combines a set of engineering criteria and classifies objects 
in point clouds that meet the criteria. Top-down classification methods are robust because domain-specific 
information such as known parameters (Ahmed et al., 2014), object instances (Dore & Murphy, 2014), and 
spatial relationships (Koppula et al., 2011) , are invariant to factors such as pose and appearance. P erez-
Gallardo et al. (2017) suggested a semantic model based system to detect four object classes in an industrial 
scene using topological information. Riveiro et al. (2016) used topological constraints to segment masonry 
bridge point cloud through normal clustering. However, this algorithm largely depends on data quality so 
that it is difficult to generalize it to adapt real data suffering from occlusions and non-uniformly distributed 
points. Ma et al., (2017) leveraged relationship knowledge and shape features to classify bridge 3D solid 
objects (Figure 1). However, the input of this method needs to  be a geometric bridge model (not a point 
cloud), meaning that it assumes both EIRs 1 and 2 are already achieved.  
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Bridge Object classification (EIR 3) (adapted from Ma et al., 2017)  
 Learning-based methods 
Learning-based methods are seeing a lot of use recently to detect objects in point clouds, aiming to satisfy 
both EIRs 1 & 3 at on ce (Xiong et al., 2013) . Maturana & Scherer (2015) proposed a supervised 3D 
Convolutional Neural Network  called VoxNet to classify objects using voxelized data. Instead of 
transforming a point cloud into 3D voxel grids, Qi et al. (2016) introduced a deep neural network called 
PointNet, which can directly consume points. These methods often require a substantial down -sampling 
procedure before they can be fed even in high performance computing systems such as TensorFlow. 
However, the resulting compressed datasets often lose feature information along the way.  
2.2 Model Fitting to Point Clusters 
2.2.1 Fitting methods 
Model fitting aims to meet EIR 2 in the context of twinning for infrastructure. In other words, model fitting 
aims to use computer graphic techniques  to form the 3D shape of a point cluster.  Existing shape 
representation methods are categorized into four groups: Implicit Representation  (Schnabel et al., 2007) , 
Boundary Representation  (B-Rep) (Oesau et al., 2014) , Constructive Solid  Geometry (CSG) (Xiao & 
Furukawa, 2014), and Swept Solid Representation (SSR) (Ochmann et al., 2016). Implicit Representation 
Shear key on 
capping beam 
Transverse beam 
Primary girder 
Shear key on abutment 
Abutment  
Column   
Capping beam 
Precast deck panel 
Safety barrier 
Girder 
Capping Beam 
Column 
Shear Key 
Bearing 
Abutment  
Deck slab  
is of limited usefulness when twinning real-world bridge components because only a very limited number 
of shapes can be represented by algebraic formulations. Although B-Rep is the most popular representation 
in computer graphics, the presence of significant occlusions in point clouds challenges the forming of closed 
mesh models. CSG methods have been proposed whereas only elementary primitives  such as cuboids, 
cylinders, and so on are used to constitute the built environment. For example, Zhang et al. (2014) designed 
a classifier to classify infrastructure components (EIR 3) and fit them with 3D shape s (EIRs 1 & 2). 
However, it only used cuboids and cylinders to fit pier, girder, and deck in synthetic bridge point clouds 
(Figure 2). Laefer & Truong-Hong (2017) used a SSR method to extrude the cross-sections of steel beams 
in point clouds, assuming the standardized profiles do not have any damages or deformation.  
Table 2 summarizes the most related research methods of the gDT generation from point clouds in terms of 
the application area and the IFC maturity. 
 
Figure 2 Fitted cuboids and cylinders to synthetic bridge point clusters (EIR 2)  (Zhang et al., 2014)  
 
2.2.2 IFC Geometric Representations 
A gDT making up of multiple fitted geometric shapes need to be represented in IFC format so that it can be 
exchanged and adopted by various software tools ( EIR 6) (Venugopal et al., 2012) . IFC geometry 
representations can be grouped into four classes (Borrmann et al., 2018a): Bounding Boxes, Curves, Surface 
models, and Solid models. More specific, Bounding Boxes are usually used as placeholders for digital 
twinning. They can be represented using IfcBoundingBox. IfcCurve and its subclasses can be used to model 
line objects. Freeform curved edges (i.e. splines) and curved surfaces are required to mode l complex 
geometries. IfcTriangulatedFaceSet can be used to represent polygons with an arbitrary number of edges, 
or triangular mesh. IfcBSplineSurface can be used for representing curved surfaces such as NURBS. Finally, 

IfcSweptAreaSolid and its subclasse s can be used to present extruded solids.  How to choose an IFC 
geometric representation depends on the specific application scenario where we use the object being 
twinned. Whilst software programs only need low-level triangulated mesh to visualize the geometry, gDTs 
authoring tools usually use high-level B-Rep- or CSG-based objects so that the geometries could be edited. 
Details of the IFC geometric representation can be found in (Borrmann et al., 2018a).
 
Table 2 State of research on gDT generation from point clouds in terms of IFC maturity 
 
Area 
Bridge 
 (Riveiro et al., 2016) (Walsh et al., 2013) (Lu et al., 2018) (Zhang et al., 2014) *(Hüthwohl et al., 2018) 
 (Zhang et al., 2015)   (Lu & Brilakis, 2019) *(Ma et al., 2018) 
      
      
      
      
      
Building 
(Dimitrov et al., 2016) (Xu et al., 2018) (Dimitrov & Golparvar-Fard, 2015) (Qi et al., 2016) (Macher et al., 2017) *(Belsky et al., 2014) 
(Vo et al., 2015) (Wang et al., 2015) (Xiao & Furukawa, 2014) (Armeni et al., 2016) (Ochmann et al., 2016)  
(Jung et al., 2014) (Díaz-Vilariño et al., 2015) (Schnabel et al., 2007) (Su et al., 2016) (Valero, Adán, & Bosché, 2016)  
(Truong-Hong et al., 2013) (Xiong et al., 2013)   (Valero et al., 2012)  
(Marton et al., 2009) (Adan & Huber, 2011)     
 (Koppula et al., 2011)     
      
Industry 
   (Patil et al., 2017) (Laefer & Truong-Hong, 2017)  
   (Su et al., 2016)   
   (Son et al., 2015)   
   (Ahmed et al., 2014)   
   (Son et al., 2013)   
      
      
 
 
Surfaces Labelled Surfaces Shapes without Labels Labelled Clusters Labelled 3D Model Enriched IFC Model 
      *Input: gDT 
  IFC Maturity 
 
 
3 Proposed Framework: LUKIS 
3.1 Overview 
We intend to solve the problem of twinning for existing RC bridges while improving our understanding of 
the specific challenges and the extent to which we have solved the problem. The main objective of this 
research is to develop a benchmark framework that paves the foundations for future research to build upon. 
The top -down approach is  based on domain -knowledge and relies on a symbolic description of the 
simplified wor ld. Its goal is to use a set of pre -defined recognition criteria or rules to mimic human  
intelligence, hence suffers from some inherent limitations. Inevitably, a combinatorial explosion of the 
number of rules occurs due to the complexity of the environment and it is impossible to predict all situations 
(especially unknown ones) that will be encountered by an autonomous entity. Yet, the limitations of the top-
down approach are irrelevant in the context of slab and beam-and-slab RC bridges. This is because the level 
of variance of these types of bridges is relatively low compared to other real -world objects. Bridg e 
components are distinct 3D solid objects, and the ir taxonomies for any given context are finite and well 
defined. Therefore, this article proposes a novel top-down framework called LUKIS, which exploits bridge 
engineering knowledge as guidance to  directly extract labelled point clusters corresponding  to bridge 
components and then to reconstruct them into IFC objects.  
Real-world bridges are neither perfectly straight nor flat.  Bridge geometries are defined by horizontal 
curved alignments, vertical elevations, and varying cross-sections. A slicing-based algorithm is proposed to 
tackle these difficulties. The algorithm is repeatedly used throughout the whole framework until all the 
components are detected and modelled. The algorithm can deal with the skew complexity and can quickly 
select a set of candidate locations for target objects. The global topology of a bridge can also be well 
approximated using multiple slices.  The general thrust behind the  slice-based representation is the 
Cavalieri’s principle (Kern & Bland, 1948), which serves as the theoretical guidance of LUKIS. Given an 
arbitrary 3D solid along the X -axis, extending from 𝑥 = 𝑎 to 𝑥 = 𝑏 (Figure 3), the solid is divided into 𝑛 
equally thick slices and define the usual partition: ∆𝑥 =
𝑏−𝑎
𝑛 ,  and 𝑥𝑖 = 𝑎 + 𝑖∆𝑥 , for 𝑖 = 1,2, … , 𝑛 , then 
Cavalieri’s principle states that: 
𝑉 = lim
𝑛→∞
∑ 𝐴(𝑥𝑖)∆𝑥𝑛
𝑖=1 = ∫ 𝐴(𝑥)𝑑𝑥
𝑏
𝑎 ,  Eq.1 
where 𝐴(𝑥) is the area of the cross-section of a slice. 
 
Figure 3 An arbitrary 3D shape represented using its cross-section A(x) along X-axis 
LUKIS only twins four most important and highly detectable primary components of typical RC slab and 
beam-and-slab bridges: slab, pier, pier cap, and girder. It consists of two successive processes (Figure 4): 
Process 1. Detection of the four bridge component types in point clouds, aiming to achieve EIRs 1 & 3, 
and Process 2. Run-time model fitting to the point clusters using IFC standards, aiming to achieve EIRs 2 
& 6. Specifically, LUKIS starts with a registered point cloud of an RC bridge. Irrele vant points such as 
vegetation, trees, traffic and so on  are manually removed. It then aligns the cropped point cloud using 
Principal Analysis Component (PCA) such that its centre axis i.e. horizontal alignment, is roughly parallel 
to the X -axis of the global coordinate system.  This step outputs a roughly aligned bridge point cloud as 
none of bridges could be positioned exactly parallel to the axes due to their real-world skewed geometry. 
Next, LUKIS proposes a  four-step object detection method (Process 1) to detect the  four components 
underlying in a  cropped bridge point cloud  in the form of labelled point clusters.  A manual refinement 
procedure is then conducted to remove the noise remaining from Process 1. Next, LUKIS proposes an IFC 
object fitting method (Process 2) to fit the refined labelled point clusters with 3D IFC objects. The output 
of Process 2 i.e. the final output of LUKIS , is an IFC file of a bridge gDT. The novelty of LUKIS lies in 
the fact that it integrates Process 1 and 2 into a single framework that provides a semi-automated method 
to twin four bridge components from point clouds at one go. We outline each Process in the following 
sections.  
 
 
 
 
 
X 
Z 
a 
 b 
A(𝑥) 
𝑥 
Y 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 The workflow of the proposed framework LUKIS 
 
 
 
A raw bridge point cloud  START 
Manual cropping 
Cropped bridge point cloud Input/Output 
PCA alignment 
Roughly aligned bridge Input/Output 
Component Detection Process 1 
Slab Input/Output Pier caps Piers Girder
s 
Manual refinement 
Input/Output 
* refined 
*Pier caps *Piers *Girder
s 
Run-time fitting & IFC writer 
Data format 
points 
points 
points 
points 
Process 2 
EIRs 1 & 3
 
LOD 250-300 
Bridge gDT 
Ifc file 
points 
END 
EIRs 2 & 6 
*Slab 
3.2 Process 1: Primary Component Detection for EIRs 1 & 3 
We use the point cloud of the Nine Wells Bridge to demonstrate the development of Process 1. The bridge 
was constructed to the south west of Addenbrooke’s Hospital in Cambridge in 2009 to carry a new road 
over a railway line. It comprises three spans of approximately 30 m in length, each constructed from twelve 
precast concrete “SY beams” with an in -situ concrete deck slab. The b ridge also contains a group of four  
cylindrical piers with a pier cap on top, a wall -like pier, and two wall-like vertical abutments as supports. 
The side view shows its varying elevations over the three spans (Figure 5). Process 1 bypasses the stage of 
surface generation altogether and directly obtains labelled point clusters. It breaks down a large bridge point 
cloud into sub-datasets through a recursive slicing algorithm. That is, the method slices the point cloud by 
means of a “virtual parallel scalpel” with a specified equal thickness. This algorithm is repeatedly used with 
sub-datasets until target objects are found and all small detection problems are solved. Step 1 segments a 
whole aligned bridge point cloud into two classes: pier assembly 𝛼𝑚 and deck assembly. This is achieved 
by segmenting the bridge point clouds into multiple slices along the X-axis and comparing the height feature 
of each slice  using a discriminative parameter 𝜌1 (Figure 6). Then, the search area is shrunk to the pier 
assembly 𝛼𝑚. Step 2 aims to detect pier area in pier assembly 𝛼𝑚 using a discriminative parameter 𝜌2. 
Each extracted pier assembly 𝛼𝑚 from Step 1 is considered as a miniature of  an entire bridge point cloud 
so that Step 2 follows the same strategy as Step 1. Next, Step 3 further narrows down the search area and 
detects pier caps in a pier area  by investigating the normal s. Finally, Step 4 aims to detect girders. We 
segment the entire deck assembly cluster into several spans followed by using the density histograms to 
detect girders in each span. All over-segments are merged, and we finally acquire the four labelled point 
clusters of bridge components (EIRs 1 & 3). Details of Process 1 and the four-step object detection method 
can be found in (Lu et al., 2018). 
 
 
Figure 5 (a) Northwest view; (b) Side view; and (c) SY beams of the Nine Wells Bridge (Graham, 2014) 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6 Slicing along X-axis in Step 1 of Process 1 
3.3 Process 2: IFC object fitting for EIRs 2 & 6 
Process 2 suggests a novel object fitting method that can twin an RC bridge into IFC format using the four 
types of point cluster. The inputs of Process 2 are the point clusters generated from Process 1. The output 
is an IFC file corresponding to level of detail LOD 250 – 300. The four types of component are represented 
with detailed geometries through multiple slice models. SSR is preferred wherever possible if the cross -
section of each slice is deemed constant. Process 2 consists of two major steps: Step 1, geometric feature 
extraction of point clusters; and Step 2, IfcObjects fitting to the extracted features. We use the Model View 
Definition proposed by Sacks et al. (2018), which provides a binding to the IFC4 Add2 standard for 
exchanging bridge DTs and defines the mandatory IFC entities in a bridge inspection scenario.  
For a slab point cluster IfcSlab, we use a similar but not identical slicing scheme to that proposed in Process 
1 to slice the deck slab into multiple slices. The slicing does not take a parallel pattern but is rather oriented 
along the normal direction of the curved alignment of the slab (Figure 7 (a)). The problem of twinning the 
entire slab is transformed into twinning slab slices by assuming each one of them is straight along its tangent 
direction and the cross-section of each slice is constant. That is to say, the horizontal alignment is assumed 
gap-freedom and can be approximated by concatenating many alignment segments.  We use a 2D profile 
IfcArbitraryClosedProfileDef and IfcExtrudedAreaSolid to describe the cross-section of each extruded 
slice, which is defined by a 2D ConvexHull 𝛼-shape. Pier cap point clusters IfcBeam are also represented 
Z 
X 
Z 
X 
Y 
𝜌1 
𝛼𝑚 𝛼𝑚
 𝛼𝑚
 𝛼𝑚
 
as Swept Solid using the outline of the 𝛼-shape on the XY-plane. Then, for pier point clusters IfcColumn, 
we use a fuzzy -logic algorithm to first classify the cross -section shape into circular, quadrilateral, and 
others. A cylindrical pier is  represented as Swept Solid  using a 2D IfcCircleProfileDef, while a 
quadrilateral and other shape pier  are represented using multiple slice models  through 
IfcArbitraryClosedProfileDef and the IfcExtrudedAreaSolid (Figure 7 (b)). Finally, for girder point clusters 
IfcBeam, we use a template matching method to find the best-match girder type in existing beam catalogue. 
We finally acquire a bridge gDT in IFC format, making up of four types of component (EIRs 2 & 6). Details 
of Process 2 and the proposed fitting method can be found in (Lu & Brilakis, 2019). 
 
Figure 7 Slicing and twinning of Process 2 for (a) slab and (b) pier 
Y 
X 
Y 
Y 
Z 
X 
X 
Z 
X 
Z 
Y 
(a) 
 (b) 
4 Research Activities 
4.1 Implementation 
Ten highway RC slab and beam-and-slab bridge point clouds were used to test the proposed framework ( 
Figure 8). Data can be downloaded from http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.1233844. Detailed statistics of the 
data can be found in (Lu et al., 2018).  
 
Figure 8 Locations of the ten bridges, scan stations, and the on-site activities 
We implemented LUKIS on Gygax (Hüthwohl et al., 2017) into a proof of concept prototype software on 
a desktop computer with the following system configurations : CPU Intel Core i7-4790K 4.00GHz, 
Memory 32GB, SSD 500GB. Gygax contains three projects : GygaxCore (C#), GygaxVisu (C#) , and 
PclWrapper (C++).  GygaxCore defines basic functionalities such as the data structures an d interfaces of 
this platform. GygaxVisu supports visualization. Helix Toolkit was used to visualize all supported data 
sources in a single 3D space . PclWrapper allows Gygax to access Point Cloud Library  API in a C# 
environment. IFC Engine DLL was used to read and visualize IFC files on a logical and geometrical level. 
Z 
X 
Y 
 X 
Y 
Scan Stations  
The raw bridge point clouds were  extremely noisy because we collected the  data with live traffic. Data 
cleaning-up is needed before running any experiments. We developed a user-defined 2D clipping polygon 
function on Gygax to manually remove irrelevant points such as the on -site traffic, vegetation, ground 
surface and so on (Figure 9). To do so, the current graphics view of 3D points was mapped onto a 2D screen 
by controlling the viewport to conduct the clipping . The 3D points in the world coordinates  (𝑥𝑤, 𝑦𝑤, 𝑧𝑤) 
were transformed into a camera space followed by perspective projection and affine transformation to 
convert the camera coordinates into the screen coordinates (𝑥𝑝𝑖𝑥, 𝑦𝑝𝑖𝑥) using: 
𝑝(𝑥𝑝𝑖𝑥, 𝑦𝑝𝑖𝑥) =
1
𝑍𝑐
𝐾[I 0][𝑅|𝑇][
𝑥𝑤
𝑦𝑤
𝑧𝑤
1
],  
Eq.2 
where 𝑧𝑐 is the world coordinate 𝑧𝑤 in the camera system, 𝐾 is the intrinsic parameter of a camera, and 𝑅 
and 𝑇 are the extrinsic parameters. We then used PCA to align the cropped bridge point cloud followed by 
implementing Process 1 i.e. bridge component detection, and Process 2 i.e. IFC object fitting, on Gygax as 
two successive modules. Details of Process 1 can be found in (Lu et al., 2018) and details of Process 2 can 
be found in (Lu & Brilakis, 2019). 
 
Figure 9 Top view of Bridge 1 (a) clipping polygons; (b) selected points are coloured and removed 
4.2 Manual Operation 
For Process 1, three ground-truth (GT) datasets: GT A, GT B, and GT C, were manually created to conduct 
Step 1, Step 2, and the entire object detection method, respectively by researchers who are familiar with the 
construction/form of the slab and beam-and-slab bridges (Figure 10). The GT datasets are optimal desired 
outputs to compare against those generated from  LUKIS. We recorded the cleaning-up time (T1) and the 
object detection time (T2) for the manual operation as well as for LUKIS. Then, for Process 2, a set of 3D 
(a) 
 (b) 